Tracing reference (#1736)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/gateway/tracing.md

---
title: "{{site.base_gateway}} tracing"
content_type: reference
layout: reference
breadcrumbs:
  - /gateway/
products:
    - gateway

tags:
  - tracing
  - monitoring
  - metrics
min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

> description: placeholder

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how {{site.base_gateway}} tracing works and about the tracing API."
```

The propagation API works for both the OpenTelemetry plugin and the Zipkin plugin.

## Headers

The [headers parameter in `kong.conf`](/gateway/configuration/#headers) lists supported tracing headers:

<!--vale off-->
{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: headers
{% endkong_config_table %}
<!--vale on-->

### X-Kong-Request-Id header {% new_in 3.5 %}

The `X-Kong-Request-Id` header contains a unique identifier for each client request. This is enabled by default both upstream and downstream. This unique ID helps in matching specific requests to their corresponding error logs, which is useful for debugging. If {{site.base_gateway}} returns an error by calling the PDK `kong.response.error`, the request ID will also be included in the response body generated by {{site.base_gateway}}. In addition, any {{site.base_gateway}} error log generated will contain the same request ID, with the format: `request_id: xxx`.

The log line produced by the debug header as well as the debug response header contains the request ID. You can use this to search for the debug header output using a log viewer UI. This is especially useful when the debug output is too long to fit in the response header.

> ## Tracing API
> 
> The tracing API is in the `kong.tracing` namespace. The tracing API follows the [OpenTelemetry API specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md).
> This specification defines how to use the API as an instrument to your module.
> If you are familiar with the OpenTelemetry API, the tracing API will be familiar.
> 
> With the tracing API, you can set the instrumentation of your module with the following operations:
> - [Span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#span)
> - [Attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/attributes/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tracing API

The tracing API is available under the `kong.tracing` namespace and follows the [OpenTelemetry API specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md). This specification defines how to use the API to instrument your module.

If you're already familiar with the OpenTelemetry API, you'll find the `kong.tracing` API intuitive and consistent with those standards.

Using the tracing API, you can configure your module with the following operations:

- [Span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#span)
- [Attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/attributes/)

```

The events of a span are time-series events that can be set by passing a table to the `add_event` method:

```lua
local span = kong.tracing:start_span("my-span")
span:add_event("my-event", {
  -- attributes
  ["key"] = "value",
})
```

#### Record error message

The event can also be used to record error messages:

```lua
local span = kong.tracing:start_span("my-span")
span:record_error("my-error-message")

-- or (same as above)
span:add_event("exception", {
  ["exception.message"] = "my-error-message",
})
```

#### Set the span status

The status of a span is a status code and can be set by passing a table to the `set_status` method:

```lua
local span = kong.tracing:start_span("my-span")

-- Status codes:
-- - `0` unset
-- - `1` ok
-- - `2` error
span:set_status(2)
```

### Release the span (optional)

The spans are stored in a pool, and can be released by calling the `release` method:

```lua
local span = kong.tracing:start_span("my-span")
span:release()
```

By default, the span will be released after the Nginx request ends.

### Visualize the trace

Because the traces are compatible with OpenTelemetry, they can be natively visualized through any OpenTelemetry UI.

> See the [OpenTelemetry plugin](/hub/kong-inc/opentelemetry/) to learn how to visualize the traces.

Author: ```suggestion
See the [OpenTelemetry plugin](/plugins/opentelemetry/) to learn how to visualize the traces.
```
